# Journal of Environmental Management 285 (2021) 112136


## 5. Results

5.1. Data compiled from wastewater influent sampling to WWTPs 
The gas-phase concentrations estimated from the influent liquid 
samples for the most predominant VOCs are presented in Table 3. Based 
on the examination of the reported data by the municipalities, six pre­
dominant VOCs were identified. These were chloroform, 1,4-dichloro­
benzene, ethylbenzene, methylene chloride, tetrachloroethylene, and 
toluene. Chloroform and toluene were present in all the samples. The 
analytical reports from the selected sites included other VOCs; however, 
their concentrations were below their detection limits. 
5.2. Gas phase VOC sampling in sewer systems in Hallandale Beach 
Table 4 presents the VOCs detected in the gas-phase samples. The 
ranges of the VOCs detected are as follows: acetone (11–75.5 μg/m3), 
chloroform (15–117 μg/m3), chloromethane (1.6–5.6 μg/m3), dichlo­
rodifluoromethane (2.5–4.5 μg/m3), 1,4-dichlorobenzene (2.5–57 μg/ 
m3), ethanol (7.5–329 μg/m3), methylene chloride (0.6–3.2 μg/m3), 
pentane (4.7–43.9 μg/m3), propane (1.0–2.7 μg/m3), tetrachloroethene 
(0.88–2410 μg/m3), trichloroethene (0.23–4.4 μg/m3), toluene (5.3–43 
μg/m3), and total xylenes (0.48–4 μg/m3). 
The analysis of VOC data from gas samples collected sites in Hal­
landale Beach indicates the presence of several VOCs classified as haz­
ardous air pollutants by the USEPA. These VOCs are chloroform, 1,4- 
dichlorobenzene, 
ethylbenzene, 
methylene 
chloride, 
tetra­
chloroethene, toluene, trichloroethene, and total xylenes. Other VOCs 
identified were acetone, ethanol, chloromethane, dichlorodifluoro­
methane, pentane, and propane, which were not considered further 
since there is no information about their carcinogenicity in the USEPA’s 
Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) system. 
There were four VOCs reported for the influent liquid-phase waste­
water samples for Hallandale: chloroform, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 
toluene, and total xylenes. While these VOCs were also present in the 
gas samples collected from the sewer manholes in Hallandale, their 
concentrations in the gas samples were significantly higher in compar­
ison to the levels estimated from liquid-phase samples (influent). 
As reported in the literature by Corsi (1997), since the wastewater 
usually flows over multiple drop structures before reaching the WWTP, a 
significant fraction of VOCs is most likely to be released and emitted 
from collection systems before reaching the WWTP. In addition, Henry’s 
law assumes equilibrium conditions between liquid and gas phases. This 
assumption may underestimate the VOCs levels in the gas phase as other 
factors may enhance volatilization of VOCs. A comparison of the VOC 
concentration ranges (minimum and maximum values) between the 
estimated gas phase concentrations from liquid phase samples and the 
gas phase samples are presented in Table 5. 
6. Comparison of VOC concentrations in Florida with other 
studies 
Fig. 2 compares the gas phase concentrations estimate

**Key Findings:**
- While these VOCs were also present in the 
gas samples collected from the sewer manholes in Hallandale, their 
concentrations in the gas samples were significantly higher in compar­
ison to the levels estimated from liquid-phase samples (influent).
- As reported in the literature by Corsi (1997), since the wastewater 
usually flows over multiple drop structures before reaching the WWTP, a 
significant fraction of VOCs is most likely to be released and emitted 
from collection systems before reaching the WWTP.

## 7. Conclusions

Levels of gas phase VOCs estimated from the liquid influent waste­
water samples to wastewater treatment plants throughout the State of 
Florida (USA) were compared with the gas samples collected from the 
sewer lines at the City of Hallandale, Florida. Gas phase VOC concen­
trations estimated from the VOC levels in the liquid influent samples at 
wastewater treatment plants showed significant variability both within 
the same municipality and different municipalities. The results showed 
Table 5 
Ranges of VOC concentrations from liquid and gas phases from Hallandale.   
VOC 
East System (μg/m3) 
Central System (μg/m3) 
West System (μg/m3) 
Gas phase concentration estimated 
from liquid- samples 
Concentration in gas 
samples collected 
Gas phase concentration estimated 
from liquid- samples 
Concentration in gas 
samples collected 
Gas phase concentration estimated 
from liquid- samples 
Concentration in gas 
samples collected 
Chloroform 
0.21–0.55 
27–41 
0.20–0.61 
39–71.3 
0.21–1.06 
15–117 
1.4- 
dichlorobenzene 
0.08–0.23 
3.7–6.6 
0.31–0.89 
5.7–20 
0.09–0.35 
2.2–57 
Toluene 
0.28–0.43 
5.3–9.0 
0.48–2.71 
7.5–11 
0.15–0.18 
7.9–43 
Xylene 
– 
0.78–1.2 
– 
2.3–4.0 
2.66 
0.48–2.2  
M. Pitiriciu and B. Tansel                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

Journal of Environmental Management 285 (2021) 112136
7
that VOC gas phase concentrations estimated from the liquid samples 
using the Henry’s law significantly underestimate the actual gas phase 
VOC concentrations present in the sewer lines. The most prevalent VOCs 
in the samples (both in the liquid phase samples collected by munici­
palities and in gas the samples collected in the City of Hallandale Beach) 
were chloroform, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, ethylbenzene, methylene chlo­
ride, tetrachloroethylene, toluene, and xylene. The VOCs detected in the 
gas samples collected at the manoles in the City of Hallandale Beach 
were acetone (11–75.5 μg/m3), chloroform (15–117 μg/m3), chloro­
methane (1.6–5.6 μg/m3), dichlorodifluoromethane (2.5–4.5 μg/m3), 
1,4-dichlorobenzene (2.5–57 μg/m3), ethanol (7.5–329 μg/m3), meth­
ylene chloride (0.6–3.2 μg/m3), pentane (4.7–43.9 μg/m3), propane 
(1.0–2.7 μg/m3), tetrachloroethene (0.88–2410 μg/m3), trichloroethene 
(0.23–4.4 μg/m3), toluene (5.3–43 μg/m3), and total xylenes (0.48–4 
μg/m3). 
Fig. 2. Gas phase VOC concentrations in the wastewater collection systems at the study sites in Florida (wastewater treatment plant influent samples municipalities 
listed in Table 2, and gas sampling data from Hallandale Beach). Values not shown were not detected. 
M. Pitiriciu and B. Tansel                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

**Key Findings:**
- Gas phase VOC concen­
trations estimated from the VOC levels in the liquid influent samples at 
wastewater treatment plants showed significant variability both within 
the same municipality and different municipalities.
- The results showed 
Table 5 
Ranges of VOC concentrations from liquid and gas phases from Hallandale.
- Tansel                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

Journal of Environmental Management 285 (2021) 112136
7
that VOC gas phase concentrations estimated from the liquid samples 
using the Henry’s law significantly underestimate the actual gas phase 
VOC concentrations present in the sewer lines.
